Welcome to the Petty Profit Podcast, weekly man hug edition where we talk about news, politics and culture from a Christian worldview.
And once a week we get together, me and my brothers Aaron and Sam, and we talk about stuff.
So as you would imagine, this week we're going to talk about stuff.
And this week we're talking about Paul David Tripp and kind of the woke movement in churches, the racial reconciliation movement in churches.
And this is not a subject I ever
saw spending this much time on in my podcast.
It's not even really an area I was aware of or tapped into when I started this podcast, but here we are.
It's something that is kind of at the forefront of the culture and it's the center of a lot of the conversations happening within the church and so I feel like it's important and things continue to happen
that I think it's important we respond to.
So this week, we're talking about Paul David Tripp.
Now Paul David Tripp, who you may be familiar with is a pastor, theologian, teacher, author, someone who has had an impact on me.
I've really appreciated his work over the years.
And he recently came out with a video on racial justice and systemic racism in the church.
That was kind of his woke coming out video, if you will.
So me and my brothers kind of take that apart and discuss that.
We're also going to discuss some of the resources that Paul Trip recommends, including the book, Woke Church by Eric Mason and some other videos and books as well.
And then finally, we talk about Nick Cannon, who
was kind of canceled on the internet last week after his dialogue on a podcast where he made kind of some black supremacist comments.
And so we're going to talk about that a little bit.
And then as always, kind of try to always bring it back to scripture, bring it back to the gospel.
What does the Bible say about all of this?
And I hope you find it beneficial.
Hope you find it uplifting.
Do keep in mind that all of the resources that we're going to talk about, all of the videos and books that we're going to talk about, I will have them linked in the show notes.
So don't feel like you have to write them down as we're talking about them.
You can check out the links in the show notes if you want to follow up and read any of these resources for yourself.
So without further delay, here we go.
Let's talk about this.
Oh, and one more thing.
Just so you're aware, we open up with a little bit of small talk, talking about our kids and updating on our lives.
And if you're not interested in all that, which if you aren't, how dare you, I'm just kidding.
But if you want to skip to the good stuff, the meat of the episode, you can skip ahead to about the nine minute mark.
And that's when we kind of jump into today's discussion.
So there you go.
All right.
How's your, how's your daughter?
She good.
We went to our 20-week appointment today.
Oh gosh, you have a daughter.
I know, her daughter.
And she's perfect.
Everything is like everything is measuring up exactly at 20 weeks, which is even pretty weird for a healthy baby.
So she's right on track for everything.
It's a super baby.
Yep, her heart's all good.
Her spine looks good.
She's got her fingers and her toes, your brain and her face.
This is perfect.
This is going to make me.
This is the name of the beer I'm drinking.
Oh wait.
Princess yum yum.
That doesn't make me a millennial zoomer.
I don't know.
It really does.
Princess yum yum yum.
What kind of beer is that?
Did you steal that from Emily's stash?
It's a raspberry colch.
Oh my.
What that's pretty good.
Get out of here, Sam.
Get out of here with your fake man hug.
This is a girly man hug.
I ran out of whiskey.
Actually, I drank all of my whiskey.
Princess Yum Yum.
That sounds like the name of a Chinese restaurant.
Doesn't it?
It does.
Princess Yum Yum.
It really does.
I would eat there.
I would eat it, Princess Yum Yum.
That would be awesome.
I did this.
Some general sows.
Anyway, well, that's great news, Sam.
The baby's doing well.
What's the name?
What's the name of the baby?
She's named a name.
Dang it.
I'm so close.
I almost laughed or something and I held it back because I wanted to see if the same...
I almost told you.
I know.
Did you really?
Did you almost do it?
Yeah, it almost came out of my mouth.
We'll have to try it later, Joel.
We will sneak it in at the end.
Aaron, how are you doing?
Great.
Doing good.
The other day, I decided to go back and watch Star Wars Episode 1 again.
My because honestly after all of the just the dumpster fire that is the rise of Skywalker.
Yeah, I actually started feeling like fondly toward nostalgic.
Yeah, because at least they're still Star Wars.
Yes, in all their cheesiness and awkwardness and all that stuff.
It's still, I still feel Star Wars-y to me.
Maybe it's just the nostalgia.
But anyway, yeah, so started watching that.
Revisiting it.
How was it?
I'm still, I just started a little bit ago.
So I'm, you know, I just chip away.
You know how watching movies is these days.
You just, you take 15, 20 minutes here or there, you know, throughout the course of like a week or two.
And so, yep.
just uh... they just visited boss nasa you know going to the city uh... that's it's hard to believe that was uh... nineteen ninety days twenty one years ago twenty one movie came out that the the graphics aren't bad considering for the time it was revolution for the time yes it's a big deal and they thought they thought they were going to be a shoe in for best special effects and then the matrix are remember beat him out
for Oscar and best special effects, 1999.
The year the Matrix came out, 1999 is like my ADBC.
It's like everything in my life is like before the Matrix after the Matrix.
So silly.
So beyond that, nothing much else is happening.
That's the exciting news in my life right now.
That's great.
Absolutely.
Well, I had a milestone with my daughter today.
She learned how to pronounce her Rs for the first time.
What?
Oh, that's kind of sad, actually.
It is kind of sad.
I know, right?
It's not like the end of an era.
That was like her signature.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, but she finally got it.
How did you do that?
How did you walk through that process with her?
Well, we looked through a bunch of...
So for the listener, my daughter is five years old.
She's going to be in kindergarten this fall, and she always has had this
like a completely adorable speech impediment.
She cannot, for the life of her, pronounce her R's.
And so even her name, Clara, she goes, Clara.
And so we just watched a bunch of YouTube videos and they teach you how to like scrunch your tongue in and touch the top of your teeth so that you can make that R sound.
And she got it and she was just so excited.
And she's been walking around the house practicing her practice.
And she for a while, she couldn't get it like she
She couldn't get the inflections right, so she would just try too hard.
She'd say the word clara, and she'd be like, clara, clara, and then finally she got the inflection.
But yeah, it is kind of sad.
It is kind of sad.
I at least have that time capsule in one of my old podcasts where
She read that fairy tale that she wrote herself.
What was it?
I ran fake news and fairy tales.
So for the listener, if you want to check that out at the end of that podcast, Clara wrote her own fairy tale and she read it.
And I recorded it in added sound effects for the podcast, but she's speaking that adorable voice of hers with no Rs.
So at least I have that to remember that by.
Anyway, our audience doesn't want to hear all this.
This is boring.
Let's get on the depressing stuff.
Let's get on our depressing crumbling Republic today.
Well, this week is, it is the crumbling church.
I feel like, I feel like at least four of our podcasts so far have been about how the church is falling apart.
Well, I never planned it that way.
You know, I never, it started.
It started with that podcast we did a little while back where we were just kind of curious.
We, you know, we piggybacked off of that Tim Keller tweet, tweet, tweet where he talked about white nationalism is bad, full stop.
And it was this big controversial thing.
Um, and that was, I'm just going to refer to it so people can go back, hold on, um, if they want to listen to it.
Yeah, it was episode 40, woke church, white supremacy, and critical race theory.
That was kind of like our first foray into this whole discussion.
And I have just found myself talking about it again and again, because it keeps coming up.
Not just here, but just in my life, in our church, in conversations online, it is kind of like the big conversation that we are having in the American church right now.
And so I thought that it was worth maybe at least one more in-depth discussion to talk about kind of the latest tragedy, our beloved Paul David trip.
At least it was my... Have you just given up on him?
Is he gone?
No, I'm continuing to pray for his salvation.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah, you can intro it.
I missed that.
What happened?
I just said that.
Sam just comes and goes as he pleases.
It's just anarchy in this.
I need another princess yum yum.
It's probably just a juice.
It's probably like just straight up.
No, it's actually very, very hoppy.
Is it hoppy?
Very hoppy.
So it's grapefruit juice then.
It doesn't even taste like raspberry.
It's not even.
That's all an IPA is.
It's grapefruit juice with a little beer tinge to it.
Anyway, we were talking about Paul David Tripp, Sam, and Trippie Boy.
I asked him if Joel had completely given up on Tripp forever.
Yeah, are you burning all of his books?
I'm praying for salvation.
No, I have
I have his parenting book on my nightstand right now as a matter of fact.
His parenting book was revelatory for me.
A great parenting book, you know, biblical gospel-centered parenting book.
And so that's, you know, obviously didn't mean any of that.
There's no chapter in there about how to teach your baby about wokeness.
Yeah, there's no chapter about how to parent a black baby, which must be very different since, you know, anyway, Sam.
So I watched his video,
I didn't really see many issues with it.
Do you want to intro it?
Could you tell what we're talking about?
I'll take us in for the listener here.
Paul David Tripp is a very well-known teacher and preacher in the evangelical world.
He's written a lot of books that have impacted many.
His book on parenting, the one we were just mentioning, was very helpful to Kelsey and I as we parent our kids.
You know, and even in our Sunday school, we've, we've watched Paul David trip videos.
Um, he had a great, um, a great book called new morning mercies, which was a great devotional book, which I also have.
And so he recently, uh, debuted a YouTube video on his YouTube channel where he kind of, it's kind of his,
everyone's calling it is kind of coming out video is coming out as a woke believer so he has been going to Eric Mason's church for the last several years and Eric Mason is the pastor of Bethany I think it's Bethany fellowship something like that all corrected if I have to I think it's Bethany something and he wrote the book entitled woke church he
kind of laid it all out very methodically, very, you know, with biblical basis in his traditionally Paul Trippian way.
And a lot of a lot of divided reaction to it.
And I agree with you, Sam, kind of like on his face, there's nothing objectionable, objectionable in it, at least in my opinion, until you look one layer deeper.
So that's kind of what we wanted to talk about.
I wanted to talk about the video itself and then some of the resources that he
recommend.
So the essence of the video is Paul Tripp saying that, you know, we as the church of Jesus Christ, we need to call out sin and injustice where we see it.
He includes a quote from Charles Spurgeon in there.
And he says that the white church in America has been blind to some very serious issues of systemic racism and systemic injustice.
And we need to educate ourselves.
We need to become more aware of this issue.
And here's what we need to do about it.
And so he kind of at the end of his video, he kind of prescribes four things.
He's like, if you want to get more educated on this, do this.
Go on, just go on Google.
and Google the Bible and justice and read through the scriptures in the Bible that talk about justice.
That's step one.
Step two, he says, watch this Phil Visher video, Phil Visher, the creator of VeggieTales.
He did a viral video.
It's on YouTube about systemic racism in this country.
It's about a 10 minute video and then he's the creator of VeggieTales.
I already don't trust the guy.
The creator of the moralistic vegetable.
Historically accurate depictions of Bible stories.
Yeah.
And then step three was pick up woke church and read the book, woke church.
And step four was get the book, was it compromise?
Well, shoot, someone helped me with this.
I can't remember.
I think it looked like the book was basically about the history of the church during the time of...
Being complicit in racism.
Yeah, yeah.
And I can't remember the name of the book, but I will link to it in the show notes.
The color of compromise.
The color of compromise by Jim R. Tisby.
Yup.
And it's ironic because in a Facebook debate, I had an atheist Marxist college professor recommend that same book to me.
Interesting, but we'll leave that and let it lie for a minute.
So let's let's talk about the the video itself What what was your reaction to it?
I guess Sam why don't we start with you?
You kind of said you watched it kind of thought hey, you know, this all seems on the up and up, right?
Yeah, I mean there wasn't any it's like yeah, absolutely.
There's injustices and Christians should always be on the side of justice.
I don't think that's
I don't think any Christian would debate that.
I think what happens right now is people come out and they say things like this, and they're missing something.
There's something that they're missing, but they're not addressing.
One, I know plenty of churches that have been talking about this for a very long time, and the culture has ramped up this narrative that is very godless.
we have to be able to equip the church to discern between the godless cultural movement and the Christ-like movement that should be within the church.
And you can't just adopt the culture's narrative because it is godless.
You can't.
You have to transform it and you have to view it through the lens of scripture.
I think that's what's missed a lot of times.
And yeah, there are issues in the church with racism divide, cultural divides and issues between churches of
different colors or different cultures or different ethnicities.
And we've talked about that before on this podcast, but I don't know.
I mean, he said a lot of good things, but he didn't really say anything at the same time.
Yeah.
That, that was my impression as well, that he kind of took the, the easy road of generic platitudes where you are, you're saying things generally that you can't disagree with.
Like Sam said, yes.
where we should be for justice, we should listen to the stories of other people.
We should see the equation that he kind of threw out there was, you can't have change without action, you can't have action without compassion, and you can't have compassion without information.
Yeah, I would agree with that too, right, as an equation.
But in this context, like Sam said, because there is the presence of a very godless philosophy that is very prominent,
and also has cleverly taken the key terms and redefined them.
You cannot just throw those key terms out there and say, we're for that, without clarifying, saying, but we don't mean this.
And the culture is hijacking the right.
We're against this.
And even not even saying we don't agree with it.
It's like, we're not just
We'll take this little chunk out of what's going on right now and just we are completely against that.
There has nothing to do with what we want.
So let me ask you this question then, guys.
Why do you think he left that out?
And could it be that he's not against that stuff?
I think that's the suspicion, right?
I don't want to assume.
I read too much into it.
Because that's the main sin that's going on in our culture right now is assumptions.
So I don't want to hear those general terms and assume that he means critical race theory and social justice and all these things.
If it weren't for his recommendations, I would be more charitable, but even with his recommendations.
And because the author of the book that he recommended that happens to be his pastor, I would say, okay, because even with that book, he did include some caveats of
You might not agree with everything in it, blah, blah, blah.
So I'm not going to stand here and say that Paul Trip is a heretic or has denied the gospel.
I think I would be there.
I was just kidding earlier when I said I'm praying for salvation.
I think that much of maybe, maybe much of what he's leaving out is because of his experience and his surroundings right now.
Um, you know, he's, he's attending Mason's church.
He's in a predominantly black church, which I think is great.
And I think probably all of us, all of us should probably do more to, um, do more.
Gosh, I hate that.
Um, should probably, you know, that should be a good thing.
Like you want, you want a diversity in your church and unity at the same time.
Yeah.
So I think a lot of what he maybe left out is, is colored by his experience and,
and the people he's around and what he's hearing, which I think it's good.
And I think it's honorable of him to listen and to empathize in ways that he has, which is also sorely needed in the church.
So I think he can probably attribute it more to who he's been around and who he's been listening to, not that that's a bad thing to what he's leaving out, not out of malice or spite or anything like that.
And being in that church,
in that context, I'm sure he felt like, especially because my current setting and context, I need to say something about this.
And I don't want to say something that ruffles too many feathers among the people that I'm currently serving and living among for good or bad.
I'm sure that influences that too.
I'll list the stuff that kind of stuck out to me as I watched.
I watched it a couple times because I wanted to make sure I had this right.
I think the first kind of red flag that stuck out to me was something that you touched on, Aaron, was that he doesn't define his terms, particularly the word justice, which is like the linchpin of this whole thing.
Yes, the Bible has a lot to say about justice, but he never defines what that means.
And if you look at how
Eric Mason defines justice in woke church.
There are a lot, a lot of issues there, which we'll get into kind of in our next section of the podcast when we talk about woke church.
But the, the world's, uh, that, you know, the cultural movement with, with critical race theory and social justice, so much of that is not justice at all, not biblical justice.
It's actually a perversion of justice.
And so we can't just use the word justice and assume that
We're talking about biblical justice here.
And so the fact that he didn't define that kind of bothers me because there's so much of that going on now where Scott Adams calls it wordthink, where we let the words do the thinking for us.
Um, we assume that they, that people are talking about the traditional definitions and, and what they're really talking about is, is some new radical revolutionary definition they've applied to it.
That goes, I mean, it changed the definition of racism in the past few months.
Like it's exactly completely different than what it was a couple of years ago.
Yep, exactly.
And Mariam Webster is following suit.
They've announced that in the next few weeks they're going to be changing it in the dictionary.
The definition.
Are you serious?
Yes.
Dude, this is 1984 stuff.
1984?
Yes.
So that was my first.
The fact that he doesn't define justice bothered me.
And the second thing was he talks about
calling out sin.
And he calls out what aboutism.
So he's like, every time I talk about this issue, people say things like, what about abortion?
What about this?
What about that?
And he's like, you know, it's our job to call out all these things.
Okay, I agree with that.
It's our job to, you know, call out all sin in the church.
Sin is sin.
Where he loses me though, is kind of his, his inference there that, that there is a sin issue here in the church.
that our systems are sinful or our lack of activism against the systems is sinful.
I mean, he says that he's he introduces the video by saying he's about to call out sin.
So what sin is he calling out exactly?
You know, and then he says, I'm about to call out sin here.
And then he goes that goes on to call out inequality, income inequality, systemic racism and things like that.
So he kind of makes this shift without really explaining how he got there.
What exactly is the sin issue here?
It was very kind of a deft move.
I'm not saying it was by design meant to be devious or anything, but just something that stuck out to me.
And then the third thing was where he talked about how you can't listen to someone relate their experiences and then use your own experiences to paint
their experiences.
In other words, like you're and relaying that back to the whole, you know, woke intersectionality, critical rights theory thing that that's classic standpoint of epistemology, you know, the idea that your source of truth is not necessarily the words of scripture, the Holy Spirit, logic and reason.
You have to add this idea of like experiences and someone else's truth.
You know, someone who is living their truth or who has had their own unique experiences that you can't relate to might have this special hidden truth that you could never find on your own because you have a white experience in a Western culture and there's a blindness there.
And that standpoint of epistemology, I think, is another thing that's a really big issue.
And again, it's not because he specifically says that, but he's
He is, he's taking a general principle that is correct.
You cannot color someone else's experience with your own.
But in the context in climate, you have to be careful about using those terms without clarifying.
Because in the context, it's saying the tendency in the culture now is saying it limits your options to only their experience or your experience.
And it actually removes the possibility of any objective truth, any truth outside yourself.
and objective truth is racist as well.
And, you know, so that's, again, it's not something that he says, you know, explicitly.
It's, would you say opening the door, allowing that way of thought to creep it?
That's what creeps me out about it.
It's like, you know, I know, I mean, he goes to Eric Mason's church.
He knows, you know, woke church, which we'll get into is, I mean, it is,
critical race theory classic to a T very explicit about it.
And it's very racially divisive.
I mean, if he's read that book, he knows.
And so part of me feels like this is almost like you know that people aren't going to accept this for what it is.
So you're going to kind of use that gentle kind of unassailable language to kind of
slowly usher people in and i'd like i feel like obama did the same thing you know i like not trying to like bring this back to politics but he was a great order you know he was a great order and he had a way of of selling a radical leftist agenda but pursing it in kind of this this language that like no one can disagree with that you know like he would he would
create a moral narrative to it.
And he wouldn't exactly spell out that like, this is our policy and this is what we're going to do.
He would kind of just gently like tuggy in a little bit at a time.
It's like the frog sitting in the boiling water as it's slowly, you know, gaining temperature.
You kind of like, and then I feel like so many people before they know it, they're, they've swallowed this whole thing.
Or another extreme, more extreme example would be, you know, if two Mormons knock on your door,
You know, how do they introduce themselves?
I'm elder so and so and we're here to share the good news about Jesus Christ, right?
They're using the term Jesus Christ and we want to show you how you can come to know him and all these definitions or these terms that a Christian would hold to as well.
But if you're gonna be wise and discerning, you're not just going to leave it at those general statements, you're gonna say, who is Jesus Christ?
What is the plan of salvation?
Give me specifics.
Yeah, they're not gonna show up at your door and say like, hey, we'd like to tell you how you can have 12 wives on a planet on Earth someday.
They don't lead with that.
It's not unloved or narrow-minded to compel someone to be more specific and clear.
What do you mean by those definitions?
Right.
And I think that's, that's the pushback.
It's like, well, can't you just shut up and listen and not push back so much?
It's like, and there's a, there's a sense where someone's experience negates any sort of statistics or truth or whatever.
It's untouchable.
Right.
And so if, you know, if someone says, well, this is my experience that that Trump's
And I think, yeah, in the moment it would, it would trump any statistic.
I mean, if you're dealing with a hurting person, you're not just going to be like, well, I don't know about that statistic wise.
It's pretty rare.
You know, I mean, you don't say that.
You don't bring that up in the moment.
And then also another thing that kind of just, it takes me off about all this is the gospel is better.
It is so much better than all of this muddy mumbo jumbo, like,
stuff.
It is so much better.
And I wish we would just stick to it.
And I know that that's one of this like me saying that puts me in the one of those bad categories in that book, I think.
Well, yeah, that's they call that out too.
They say, you know, there is this group of people that say, you know, just stick with the gospel, stick with the gospel, just preach the gospel.
And then they kind of straw man you and say like, yeah, you know, well, you fight abortion, don't you?
Um, you know, would you, would you say to someone who's fighting abortion, just stick with a gospel?
No, you know, right.
And the, the assumption is that people that disagree with you are uninformed.
And I think that's, or they're blind blind.
Yeah.
And that's dangerous because we dis, like we disagree.
We might disagree on, like I can, I would never invalidate anyone's personal experience.
Anything that has ever happened to anybody that I know there's, there are tons of people there.
thousands of people in this country who have been wrongfully imprisoned that have been chosen just for their skin color because someone said, oh, a black man raped me.
And so they just go find some random black person.
And I know that that's happened before.
And, you know, I would never say that that's a good thing.
I would never say that I should continue in this country.
And I don't think anybody is saying that that should continue in this country.
Yeah.
You know, we disagree with some facts and we kind of disagree with maybe the systems and and and how
bad some things are and even on the solutions like i don't think like i think one of the big problems is the democratic party and a lot of those policies of welfare and and how that is kept this underclass as an underclass and um... i disagree on the solutions but that doesn't mean i'm blind
That doesn't mean we can't fellowship, that doesn't mean we can't agree on the fact that injustice is injustice.
And that's why I wish, like, why couldn't we just be honest about this?
Why couldn't Christians just come out and say, hey, I believe we need to help these underprivileged minorities, and these are my solutions that I feel like we need to employ.
And another Christian could say, I feel like these are the solutions that we feel like we should employ.
But instead, they kind of person is like, if you don't accept this solution, this proposed progressive leftist solution, you're not preaching the full gospel, which is what's so insidious about it.
And I know we need to move on, but the last kind of little red flag in that video.
for me was, well, there's, I have two more.
Sorry, I gotta run through them quick.
The first one, he mentioned 1619, so I was like, oh, you listened to 1619.
He did?
Yeah, I remember that too.
I rewound it because I thought he said it.
Well, I think he mentioned like, ever since 1619, right?
You didn't mention the project, he mentioned the eighties.
No, but that was like, that was like, that was the dog whistle.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It wasn't even in our language before.
It was in our lexicon, yeah.
The whole thing, yeah.
But have you listened to 1619?
No, it's it is started.
I couldn't I couldn't finish.
It is especially for someone like me who's studied a lot about that subject in that time in history just myself for the podcast and for other things I've written.
It's so infuriating to listen to.
It's so incompetently done.
It was I couldn't believe I actually expected it to be better than it was based off of what a
big cultural thing that it was, a big phenomenon that it was.
I expected it to be better than it was.
It was atrociously dishonest, disingenuous, and it spins a great narrative.
But there's this trick that you can do where you can be completely truthful and give completely accurate facts.
But if you select just a certain
a number of facts and string them together in just the right way.
You can tell a narrative that is completely different than the whole truth.
And Phil Visher in that video that Paul Tripp recommends, which it's a very well done and effective video.
Phil Visher's an incredibly gifted storyteller, but Phil Visher does the exact same thing where he cherry picks completely true things that actually happened
that were wrong and horrible, strings them together to form a narrative, but he leaves out so, so much.
And it gets you, you know, it kind of steers you into this kind of this one conclusion that they want you to get to.
And so that was the one.
And then my last one was Paul Tripp towards the end of the video and I was waiting for this.
I knew it was going to happen because every video like this has had something similar.
He goes something like this.
He says, I love the Church of Christ.
I love God's people.
I love God's word.
I love the gospel, but I was waiting for that, but I knew it was coming.
And that's what they always say.
I love the gospel.
I love God's word, but here's some more things that we need to learn and to add to our knowledge, you know, to our understanding of the gospel.
I'm not saying that that's completely legitimate.
You know, I think that there's always
a chance that Christians, the Christian church, might have a blind spot where there needs to be looked at.
But it's interesting that that's always a common thread with these folks that make these sorts of statements.
It's always kind of like a caveat, like, hey, I love the gospel.
But instead of it being, I love the gospel so.
And they're probably, I'm sure they're probably going to catch on to that and adjust their language accordingly.
But the thing, honestly, that bothered me most of the whole video is how many times he adjusted his glasses.
Those glasses are very stylish.
Very cool.
Time you did it.
All I heard was, I'm smarter than you.
That's all I heard.
Well, did I tell you what my wife said?
Yeah.
So I told my wife about this after the video first came out and I said, you know, I'm so heartbroken, Kelly.
You know, I,
I've always loved Paul Tripp and his books, and I just feel so terrible about this.
And she looked at me and she said, I never liked him, Joel.
I never liked him.
I said, why?
That's terrible.
Why would you say that?
What do you mean he never liked him?
And she's like, it's the way he dresses.
He dresses too hip.
And she's like, you can't trust anyone who tries that hard to look that cool all the time.
And I'm sorry, I don't want to get
get petty and get down on.
And you were at that moment you were really thankful for your dad jeans and flannel shirt, right?
Yeah, that's right.
Well, I think she was probably more trying to compliment me and around about way than.
and get on.
I thought that was it.
You're the opposite of that, Joe.
You never try to know after it's your style.
I love that you don't look stylish at all.
If I had the time and money, I would probably look just like Paul David Tripp.
Yeah, I'd try too hard.
Yeah.
Anyway, he's got a nice mustache.
he does he's got that he had he's got the mustache that's where his authority always came from for me from his mustache mustache always gave him that extra level of kind of resellicky yeah any any more thoughts on the video guys like what he
We're getting it.
We're going to be getting it.
I bet you Paul David trip drink Princess Yum Yum.
Sam, just make a meme and throw that out there.
Paul David trip, drink Princess Yum Yum.
Tells you all you need to know.
It's enough said.
I wake up sheeple.
I think it's good to zoom out and view the church as a whole and
This is what churches do, man.
They chase airy doctrines left and right.
This is what this is what we do.
I think it's just pastors cannot get away with just the general phrases and sayings to make them seem like they're in it and with it and all these things.
You can't just stand up and say, let's be people of justice.
Let's stand together.
be unified, those are all good.
Like, show me some, like, help me discern, help me know the truth.
You know, like, yeah.
I don't think they're, they're seeing entirely the, the war on words and on control and on domination that is being waged through this language.
This language is being used to browbeat people in the submission.
Yeah.
And you have to recognize that.
You have to recognize that even if, even if the people who are using it or have been traditionally oppressed in this country, even if it doesn't matter what two injustices don't make a justice.
And you have to call that out.
It's so true.
That's so true.
I, you know, the other thing too, I, I wonder if, you know, these, these pastors, do they, do they buy sneakers that were made in China?
I mean, they're loading political prisoners in the cattle cars over there.
It's sending you the concentration camps.
How do you feel about your shoes that were made by slaves so that you can pay only a hundred bucks for them?
Well, if it's not on the front page, we don't have to worry about it.
We don't have to speak on it as pastors.
If it's not talked about in the New York Times, then
don't bother, but like I know I'm engaging in what aboutism here, but there is that element to where, you know, pastors, it's much easier to jump on the bandwagon of the fashionable causes than it is to engage in the unfashionable causes.
And like I think we've said before, that's not bravery.
I don't see any bravery.
I don't see you putting anything at risk.
I don't.
So if you're not putting anything at risk, I don't
have a lot of respect.
I have respect.
I mean, obviously we say things all the time that don't put it, but as a risk, but that's all you say.
And then, yeah.
Yeah.
So you guys want to move on to woke church a little bit.
Maybe woke church talk a little bit about white fragility because I know you, Aaron, you looked up some stuff on that.
It was, I thought it was heavy.
I have not read either of those.
So I, it's okay.
I'll just insert some, you can just be the peanut gallery.
There we go.
Yeah.
I'll just challenge everything you say.
Samuel sent us a review that he found by was Neil Shenvie.
I was shocked by that.
That was actually good.
That was a good.
Really good.
This guy totally random that I found him.
He's a theoretical quantum physicist.
He went to Princeton and Berkeley and then he became a Christian and he has this whole website dedicated to
theological and he had talks a lot about critical race theory actually and I haven't been able to dive into that but I mean he's a clearly.
He's the guy whose podcast I inspired our first discussion of this.
I wrote down the like the six elements of critical race theory that all came from Neil.
No way.
Yeah.
So all of them is not a question on on woke church to the quotes that he actually gives from the book.
You know, I think it's it's a
dangerous to form your opinion on a book by the reviews of others.
But in the article, he does give a lot of direct quotes from the book itself.
So can I start with just kind of introducing this, this pastor here?
Yeah.
And I don't know much about him, honestly.
So I just kind of took a little crash course, you know, just today.
So I'm no expert either.
But you know, Eric Mason,
You know, he's the founder and lead pastor of Epiphany Fellowship in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
That's where Paul David trip attends.
He's been attending there for a few years.
I just kind of today I went down a kind of a little bit of a rabbit hole with watching YouTube videos of him and interviews and I pulled out a few things and I was really kind of disturbed by maybe it was just the videos that I saw.
He came across as as extremely
extremely unkind and arrogant to me.
And that might just be my white fragility talking, I know.
But in one interview, they asked him, what do you think is the greatest threat to racial unity?
And he responded, he said white fragility is the greatest threat in our country to racial unity.
And the interviewer said, well, what about black people?
What's holding black people back from racial unity?
And he said, battle fatigue.
Black people are in danger of growing tired of fighting for their equality.
And so white fragility and black battle fatigue.
Those are the two greatest threats to racial unity in our country.
He also said that
we need to tear down white Jesus.
The white Jesus that Western Christianity has constructed has put down the black man and delegitimized him and told the black man that you have no place in Christianity and so we need to tear down white Jesus.
And then the other thing he talked about was he just talked about his model for a church in the community and he said,
Your church should know the top three needs in your community.
If you don't know what the top three needs in your community are, then you're failing as a church.
And your community should know exactly what your church is about and what you're doing.
And he said, if your people aren't on board, if they don't know,
you know, if they're not social media savvy and they're not, you know, they don't have a good understanding of racial dynamics.
I don't care how long they've been serving old faithful people in the church.
You just like get them out and replace them.
It's like, you just say, I'm sorry, sister.
I know you're a faithful servant.
Blah, blah, blah.
Here's your flowers.
Get out.
We need to replace you with people who know what's going on.
And just kind of like that added like just that very, you know, he's a driven person.
He's he's on a mission, right?
So
Not saying that's the right impression of him.
I I need to give him some more time Maybe because I know Paul David trip speaks the world of him You know calls him an incredible gospel preacher's preach some of the best sermons he's ever heard in his life Okay, I'm not gonna necessarily say that's not true.
I just he just from what I saw was was a little concerning so we wrote this book woke church I Have you guys heard of Rosaria Butterfield?
Oh, yeah
Okay.
So Rosaria Butterfield, she was a former college professor in the 90s.
She was a lesbian activist and she was a part of kind of the formation of all this stuff.
And in the speech that I listened to, she's like, I helped to create this world, this messed up critical race theory world.
And then she went to excoriate this book, woke church.
She's like, the word woke is borrowed from black nationalism.
It is a completely racist movement.
Coming from the inside, I think she's a little more sharp in her criticism of woke church than I think a lot of other people are going to be because she knows the theory and the thinking behind it in and out.
Anyway, from what I could gather on Eric Mason, I know it's overwhelmingly negative.
forgive me if I'm not being fair and to the listeners if you know more about this guy than I do and you want to contribute, please write me in and send me some stuff.
So he wrote this book, Woke Church.
Paul Tripp endorsed it.
Aaron, do you want to go over some of the impressions from Neil's review of it?
Well, I appreciate how he approached, and you should link this review in the show.
I will.
He starts off by talking about the good things, and he did say, in one of his first prose, his Mason's book is undeniably rooted in a Christian worldview, that he does talk about what the gospel is, clearly, despite some confusing things later on.
The biggest huge red flag
which Neil describes as a few exegetical slips.
I saw as like massive.
One would be him hijacking 2 Corinthians 5, 18 saying that God has given us the ministry of reconciliation and taking that term reconciliation and appropriating it to the idea of reconciling man to man, you know, group to group when in reality that verses saying the reconciliation of man to God.
which is the ultimate solution.
That is what is going to cure mankind.
And the way Neil describes it is, we need to be careful not to allow our desired application to influence our interpretation of the text meeting.
I thought that was really good and helpful and how Mason does the same thing with justification.
I mean, the cornerstone of the Reformation
and infusing almost a Catholic idea of justification being both a position and a practice.
And that actually being a foundation for his argument regarding how Christians should approach justice.
It's rooted in his doctrine of justification.
Being a practice, you mean?
You're right.
And he actually transforms the meaning of justification to fit what he's trying to say
In any pastor, I don't care what race, I don't like using the term race, ethnicity, you are.
If you're doing that regularly, not by mistake, you don't belong in the pulpit.
So those were huge for me.
And then there's a Venn diagram that he's including in there.
that kind of overviews his idea of what he's trying to go across.
And there's some something that Sam mentioned to mentioned earlier that he seems to mistake disagreement with blindness.
That if you disagree about the idea of current systemic racism, you're actually blind.
You haven't.
You haven't reached the full orb wokeness.
And so based on that review, again, I haven't read the book.
uh... based on that review it's not good it's not uh... very concerning yeah so uh... there's a guy there's another guy i'm going to recommend and his name is john harris john harris who did a kind of a very extensive uh... hour and thirty minute uh... review of the book which i'll all link in and recommend if you want to check that out uh... but i took some notes from it uh... which i'll kind of go through in the the first issue
was the, of course, the redefining of the word justice.
So that's one of the key things of the book.
Eric Mason talks about three different types of justice.
There's intervening justice, there's preventative justice, and then the big one, number three, which is systemic justice.
And the, you know, John, who reviewed it, basically his big problem with that third definition was there was nothing biblical about it.
It was completely and entirely lifted
cut copy paste from, you know, from Marxism critical race.
You know, I hate to use the word Marxism because it's such a like a hot button, but it's copied from that lens of thinking that came from the universities.
Another thing.
So he introduces a section of his book by talking about Christians who ignore injustice.
And he's like Christians who ignore injustice, injustice, injustice,
don't really have the characteristics of being a Christian, you know, kind of the implication.
If you ignore injustice, you're not really showing much evidence of being saved.
And then he goes and he outlines four or five things.
These are different ways that Christians ignore injustice, okay?
So I'm going to list them for you here.
Just give your reaction to these.
So the first way that the Christian church ignores injustice is
The first one is perpetuating stereotypes.
From an interview, he talks about how people believing that black men are immersed in womanizing in pimp culture.
That's a stereotype.
That's not true.
That's a lie about black men.
Another lie, he says, another stereotype that is harmful is the idea that black preachers
Most black churches have real big problems with theology that most of them preach the prosperity gospel and I don't know if that's true or not.
I haven't seen any studies, but he says that that's a big stereotype of black churches.
I can't say that just in my search for trying to, you know, I reached out to some friends.
Hey, you guys know any solid theologically black churches in Toledo?
None of my friends, a couple of whom are very
tuned in to the church scene here that couldn't give me any.
The second thing that Christians do to ignore injustice, which again, he says, is evidence that you're not showing many characteristics of being a Christian, is by promoting colorblindness.
Promoting colorblindness, he says, denies Christ's power to heal racial divisions.
You know what?
That's...
My reading of the scripture tells me that Christ's power to heal racial divisions is what gives you colorblindness.
We look at man not facing out what your appearance is.
How you define the term.
Yeah, what's true?
What is colorblindness?
Can we talk about what that is?
Because everyone, now it's bad.
Now, now being colorblindness.
It's the idea of I don't see color.
What is it?
Right?
Would that basically?
I don't see color.
Yeah.
And the negative side of it is that you're not seeing my experience.
You're not.
Yes.
Yeah, you're not.
Okay.
Wait, acknowledging my culture, my background, my experience when you deny.
There's a few things that
Not every black person has the same experience.
And two sentences before he told us not to stereotype.
So what are we supposed to do?
Are we supposed to look at every black person and say, oh, they have this experience and stereotype them every single time we see them, or should we treat them as a human being and make assumptions before we learn about what their experience is?
This is a lose-lose.
We can't.
So you're not a Christian, Sam.
You're not a Christian.
What am I supposed to do?
I'm supposed to not stereotype, and then I'm supposed to stereotype.
You're white, so you can't do that.
Man.
Yeah, so that's the second one.
The third one is, you know, I kind of agree with this one.
Christians can ignore injustice by ignoring the needs of the community.
And that's where he says every church should know the top three needs of the community, which, you know, his church actually sent out a survey, like what do you see as what this community needs, which, okay, I,
As Christians, we at least know the top need, okay?
We know number one.
Question number one, right?
Being saved.
And you know, I just threatened the gospel.
I appreciate wanting to be engaged in the community and meet what the physical needs are there.
But this idea that, you know, the community needs to be telling the church what it needs.
And that's where we, you know, it's just a little off.
Anyway, the fourth way,
is by not participating in activism.
And his big beef with the church is that the church should have been the ones to start the Black Lives Matter movement.
And because the church failed to provide dignity to Black Lives, that movement was taken over by the left or this other movement that we don't agree with.
I've heard that like the only reason the culture
And the country is doing this right now is because the church has failed.
And I don't know.
There's some, you can have an element of truth in that.
You know, I wouldn't deny the fact that, especially, you know, when slavery and Jim Crow was still a thing and so many churches were very much, uh, okay with it.
Yeah, that, that is a, that's a huge, horrible thing.
But when you say that being actively involved in activism as a church, that's implying that's part of your mission, social activism.
And also the implication being that that is what gives black people dignity.
Black people need to be given dignity by this political movement.
I mean, we know that our dignity comes from something else.
You know, God created man in his image, male and female, he created them.
And where is this idea that dignity is provided, is gifted by other people involved in political movements?
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
Not that we shouldn't be aware of and even invest in
political policies that provide equality and justice for more people.
Yeah.
Right.
Sure.
I don't think we can sound like a cop out by just saying, well, you know, I mean, I would argue that Christians who have been trying to end the, the, uh, overblown welfare state have been doing that.
They've been doing it from the right with, with right leaning policies, but
You know, just to say that because Christians haven't been involved in leftist activism, that they haven't been involved in advocating for the needs of the poor and that they, I would argue that churches, gospel preaching churches have been doing that this whole time.
They just haven't been doing it through this leftist paradigm, you know, and that's what his argument is.
And you look back at the history of, you know, if we're really going to divide cultures, the history of white
Christians in this church, you have the underground railroad, you have all of these movements, you have shedding our blood to fight for the end slavery in the Civil War.
Slavery was ended in this country by Christians.
It really was.
It was.
Harriet Beecher Stowe with her book, I mean, she changed the culture, turned people's hearts and minds against slavery in your exactly right.
Christians have been involved in this quest for justice since the very beginning.
And since we started rescuing Roman babies from alleyways as they were being thrown out, we've been doing this.
So, woke church bad.
Well, yeah, so there's a few other red flags that kind of came out.
Eric Mason says that my legitimate pride in my black race was not provided to me by my study of Christian theology as I grew up, basically saying that traditional Western Christian theology
does not instill enough pride in blackness.
What if I said that about my white race?
What if I said, is that different?
It's different because you're privileged.
Your majority culture.
Whiteness is the water you swim in, right?
That's what they say.
So you don't have to have pride in your race because it's just all around you.
You're not an outcast, right?
I just don't, I can't imagine this, just like this racial fixation.
I can't imagine living like that.
Now, I think that's the sickness here, you know, that I think being, I can imagine if I were raised as a minority in a culture where that might, where my minority was historically oppressed and enslaved.
Relate in that in that racism was relatively recent a couple generations removed maybe yeah, I would definitely tend toward rallying around My minority group and having pride Absolutely in in our group and how we've overcome and and how we've persisted and all those things yeah, so I don't want to just flip that away as being a
How could they even think that way?
I actually can understand why that would be the case.
The problem I have is, should we look for that affirmation in the Bible?
Why do we need the scripture to affirm our pride in our group?
That's not what the Bible is about.
The Bible is about
redeeming all humanity through Jesus Christ, unifying them in one body, in spite of racial or ethnic differences.
And there's nothing, I don't think there's anything wrong with feeling a part of a community or culture.
It's natural to humans.
I have this weird pride for being raised in Finley, Ohio.
Like it's a weird, like white trash conservative town that, you know, it's like weird and dumb, but like, yeah, I'm from Finley, Ohio.
I'm a black guy fan, you know.
Like, you know, here in Detroit, right, you see that just as a city, not necessarily a racial thing, but a city thing.
Detroit versus everybody.
Everyone's against us.
So we have Detroit versus everybody.
Right.
You have a trip on your shoulder.
You form this pride and this identity.
in the midst of that.
So there was a great in Zaria Butterfield's talk, which I will also link to because it's excellent.
She talked about how she's out of the academic scene now, but she's still very tapped into what's going on there.
And she's talking about how parents are coming to her.
And saying things like, you know, she said it used to be in the 90s, parents would come to her and say, you know, my child came out as gay, what do I do?
And she said, now it's different.
Now it is, my child was made to sit in the back of a sociology class and wear a bandana over his mouth because he's a white male.
And he was
He was told that he has to remain in the back of the class.
All the white males have to remain in the back of the class with a bandana over their face until they either identify as bisexual or identify as a cisgender white male.
And they have to affirm that they are cisgender white males, which means you're a straight white male.
I can't believe that.
What?
She said that this idea, this wokeism is
I mean, it's the religion of the university now, she calls it.
And so there's a sense where you have to, you know, you're trying to swing back the fulcrum of power towards, you know, the disadvantage.
And so in order to do that, you have to kick down the oppressors.
And so she says, but my point in all this is the effect that that's having, she's like half of these young boys are
just kind of succumbing to it because they want to go with the flow and they kind of become woke themselves.
And she's like, but the other half of them are going over to the alt right, becoming white nationalists.
All right.
And so there is that sense to where, um, you know, if, if white people were oppressed, I can picture a world where we would have the same racial feelings.
Um, that that's like the natural, like you were saying, that's like the natural reaction when you're, when you're treated like that.
you kind of want to band together.
And, um, and that's, that's actually interesting.
And I don't, I do not want to compare.
I hate comparing anything to Nazis, but I mean, you have post World War one.
Everyone was, everything was laid on Germany.
You had massive debt.
You had massive reparations.
I mean, Germany was basically locked out of possibly ever, possibly becoming
a notable country ever again.
They were horrifically humiliated.
Absolutely, in every single way, because they lost.
And you see rising from that white nationalism and Nazism.
And they clung to Hitler because he said, no, we're better than everybody.
And they're like, yeah, we are better than everybody.
Yeah, we can, yeah, we're the best race there is.
And so they clung to that.
You'll see that again.
If this critical race stuff continues, you'll see that again.
The Pendulum is going to swing back and forth.
Yeah.
There's it will be an oppressed group and an oppressor group.
And the oppressed group will fight back, push down the oppressors, which will then form a new oppressed group, which will want to rise up and to conquer the oppressor.
And it just goes back and forth.
It's fighting fire with fire, racism with racism.
It's crazy.
This was Rosaria Butterfield's criticism of Woke Church.
She said, it fosters an unbiblical view of identity.
It fosters emotional immaturity and lack of perseverance, creating a fractured movement of victim-minded, angry and inconsolable people.
It fosters social division in this unity.
It puffs up false teachers in the church who produce people looking for identity
and grace in all the wrong places."
And then she said, gospel identity and gospel citizenship are not found in the fickle heart of men's deep hurts.
In contemplating Christ, there is a balm for every wound.
She has a way with words, doesn't she?
My goodness.
You know, and that's when I believe women can be pastures.
That's what I'm like, you know, there's room for it.
Okay, okay, okay.
One exception for rodera.
Right.
Yeah.
Wow.
You're so true.
I mean, it's, it's, the gospel is such an overused buzzword now and it's so misused now because people like to tack it on to things, but the gospel is so dang simple.
It's so dang simple.
Edelbury, you know, you know, that people roll their eyes when they say when people say stick with the gospel, just, you know, preach the gospel.
Oh, yeah.
But it is like it's it's worked for the past 2000 years.
So he's solution to all of this, including your concerns of racial disunity and racial division and oppression and systemic racism and injustice, all these concerns that you have, however legitimate they may be.
All the Christians are in Christ.
I think, you know, what you said, Aaron, is people don't understand the gospel.
And nobody is taking a look at it for what it is.
And even our listeners, even me, you know, it's easy to get pulled away by this kind of stuff.
Look at the gospel for what it is.
Read the scripture.
Look it over.
Study.
Look for truth.
Look for the truth.
And that is the most
Um, I think it's the most encouraging takeaway we can all take away from this.
Is that there is a truth because we live in a crazy truthless look, whatever society just it's there.
Go find it.
Look in the New Testament, how the gospel unified and transformed local churches that were dealing with social divides, economic divides, racial divides.
Um, you know, people forming around different
dynamic speakers and leaders and the threats and divisions and how the gospel was the thing that unified them.
And it's like, we see that and we're like, yeah, but right.
It's like, but it's different now.
Right.
It's different now.
It's the same.
Yeah.
It's the same thing.
And I don't know if we want to, if it's time to switch gears or not, but no, to kind of maybe in my own heart,
be careful that I'm maintaining balance in this.
Going back even to Paul Tripp's equation that he lays out in his video, change comes from action, action comes from compassion, compassion comes from information.
So information plus compassion plus action equals change.
We've been talking a lot about that action component.
What is the proper action?
And there's a, there is a very insidious and an evil solution that is being
pushed that we are fighting against and my sinful overreaction to my disagreement to the action proposed is to also ignore the compassion and the information.
So in other words, because I disagree with the action, I'm going to discount and not listen and learn.
I'm not going to have compassion.
I'm just going to brush it off.
and say, nah, it's not there, it's not real, blah, blah, blah.
And so that's where I'm trying to balance in my own mind.
It's possible as Christians to be informed, to learn, to have compassion and care for people that have a lot of horrible experiences and backgrounds and all that.
As long as I am doing that through the lens that properly sees and understands
man's ultimate problem and God's ultimate solution.
And that impacts and influences the action that I oppose.
Right.
So that's why I actually, and I know you mentioned that it wasn't a complete picture, but I actually appreciated Paul Fisher's video.
I'm sure there's more to the story, but it's actually, it's not a radical thing, you know, to say that racist, segregational policies of the past,
have lasting and residual effects.
That it's like one domino hitting the next.
And that's kind of what his video was saying, just to kind of sum up, he gives a summary at the end of all the stats and things.
And he says, the average black household has one tenth at the wealth of the average of white household.
It didn't happen by accident and happened by policy.
And again, there's more to that story.
The majority culture told them where they could live and where they couldn't live.
That's true.
That's what happened.
Then we moved most of the jobs to the places where we told them they couldn't live.
When the predictable explosion of unemployment and poverty resulted in predictable increase in drug use and crime, we criminalized the problem.
We built $19 billion of new jails and sold grenade launchers to the police.
And as a result, a white boy born in America has a one in 23 chance of going to prison in his lifetime for a black boy.
It's one in four.
And that's why people are angry.
And I love how he ends the video.
Honestly, he says, I'm not here to tell you what the right solutions are.
because I don't know.
I'm just here to ask you to do one thing, care.
That kind of impacted me, that a lot of the things he was telling are things that I hadn't really thought of been aware of.
I'd like to see a sequel to that video where he talks about Asian Americans, how we put them in concentration camps.
And when they immigrated in the 50s, we actually passed laws that
didn't allow them to take any American jobs.
We said that you can come here, but you can't take, you can't have any jobs.
We relegated them to, you know, to their own zip codes as well.
I would like to see that sequel.
And I wonder why the Asian Americans are doing even better than white folks in this country.
Yeah.
But let's, let's say that you have the, you know, you hear about a father that has two sons and he oppresses both of them and in one of them overcomes that oppression and becomes a successful businessman.
The other person really struggles by how his dead mistreated him and held him under and took so much longer to get over it.
We would not, good point, look at that.
Other sons say, well, what about the other brother?
Now, yeah, is there, is there always, there's always personal responsibility?
And that's the hope that we have in Christ that we are not ultimately determined by the actions of others.
We're able to overcome that in Christ.
But
It doesn't mean we ignore how those policies really negatively impacted a lot of people.
A lot of the inner city, I mean, the inner city communities, at least in large in part, were created by the policies of our government.
Yeah, yeah.
And they never were given their birthright as a part of America.
When they were freed,
You know, the other settlers, when they came to America, they were given a parcel of land.
They were given, you know, 100 acres, 1,000 acres, whatever, to start their life, to become farmers.
And that was denied to black people.
And it continued, you know, through social Darwinism, all that stuff I've talked about.
It continues to this day, absolutely.
And you know, like right after slavery was ended, you know, the vagrancy laws were in the South, you know,
The 10 different states made it a crime not to have a job so these newly freed slaves You don't have a job are now criminals and they were sent back to the the plantations to work Yeah, and then Jim Crow and all of these things even you know in like the 1950s or 60s where you know the federal housing administration Said that it's that incompatible racial groups should not be permitted to live in the same communities.
Yeah, right?
things like that.
So here's my, here's my deal though.
I know I'm like jumping to the present now though.
Cause that's, that's my concern.
I like how, how we move forward.
I don't see any good that can come from us, white people, black people, anybody continually and obsessively looking back and looking back and looking back and looking back and bemoaning it and mourning it.
I mean, at some point, it is completely unfair and completely tragic what got the black community into the situation that they are in now through no fault of their own.
But they are, unfortunately, they are going to have to get themselves out of it.
No one else can do it for them.
White people can't get them out of it.
The system can't improve their lot in life as much as politicians might try to say.
The only thing
that can improve the lot in the life of black americans is them choosing to overcome it that's the only thing that that and that's that's the message that's lost as long as you're like like in the past right when there were Jim Crow laws and stuff we say you know you know we need to
overcome, and we also need to change these racist policies.
But now that the laws are gone, we've actually done a lot of work trying to get rid of all of those racist policies.
We've reversed it.
We have affirmative action to where you can have a sea average and get into college if you're African-American.
I love the flip side.
I can't imagine.
Have you seen the John James ad where he talks about John James is?
He's an African-American.
running for U.S. Senate.
And he has a campaign ad aired recently where he talked about, he said, America is the only country where you can go from slave to senator in four generations and poverty to prosperity in one generation.
And he's talking with his dad that worked hard and went from poverty and provided a life for his son.
And you know, four generations earlier, you know, they were in slavery.
America has caught amazing taking a lot of time to We're catching up with the story of America has been us trying to catch up to the ideals on which we were founded and Because the ideals that we were founded on our anti-human nature You know the fact that every every person is free that the fact that Every man is made in the image of God that is not our default state and they can take a while and
Right.
To figure those things out.
And I agree with that, Joel, in the sense that on a personal level for people of color, that is on a personal level what they'll get them from point A to point B. I think, obviously, maybe there might be still work to be done as far as communities, governments, systems, who knows.
But we're moving in the right direction.
So much problem.
I think maybe, I think,
99% of the improvement that can be had in the black community is going to have to come from them.
And I think it is a grave sin and a grave injustice that there is a white leftist class in this country that seems to be obsessed with keeping our brothers and sisters wallowing in weakness, bitterness, resentment.
anger and powerlessness, which is what the book white fragility is espousing.
That's what it's saying.
We're the power class.
And so we're the only ones who can do something about it.
Exactly.
Because you're the oppressed group.
You can't do anything because we're keeping with racism.
So yeah, it is it is reverse racism.
Oh, don't say that.
That's you're not talking about racism.
Can I tell you about this canon thing?
Did you see that?
Yeah.
Oh, dude.
I saw the response.
I like Sam.
You got 3,000 likes 20,000.
Yeah.
And by far the most common.
And so Joel just said the Nick Cannon deal where he was blasting people with less melanin and Jews and everything.
So Nick Cannon, yeah, he is, I think that's another issue in the Black community right now is that like the teachings of folks like Louis Farrakhan, Nation of Islam, the Black Hebrew Israelites that kind of like the bandanaed white boys that went and became alt-right have reacted to, you know,
years of oppression by becoming the black version of alt-right.
And Nick Cannon's, yeah, he talked about Aaron, you can kind of summarize what he said.
Yeah, so he basically said, you know, we have more melanin, so we have more soul.
And those that have less melanin are actually lesser and closer to animals and the real savages.
Yeah.
And that's why they formed systems of oppression because they knew they were lesser than and they had to compensate for that.
So anyway, Joel
retweeted that and said, wow, actual racism.
And over and over again, responses to his comment were idiot, black people can't be racist.
Yeah, you need power to be racist.
Right.
And that is what goes back to where it says that the terms are being redefined because now racism is solely linked to the idea of oppressed toward oppressor, oppressor toward oppressed.
And it can only be applied in that way.
That was the number one comment.
The other, the number two comment that I got was, oh, look at this poor white boy.
I'm so scared and complaining about this guy that's being racist against him.
And that kind of broke my heart because I was like, I don't care.
It's not, it's not hurting me.
It's not affecting me in any way.
I'm heartbroken for Nick Cannon.
Like, you know, this is only going to hurt him.
It's that classic saying, you know, bitterness is like drinking poison and hoping it hurts the other person.
Right.
You know, it's tragic to see anybody wrapped up in this kind of thinking.
And who did he blame after he got fired?
He blamed systemic racism.
Yeah.
Right.
That's crazy.
And so that is, that is why...
He shouldn't have been fired though.
No, yeah.
I hate the cancel culture.
I don't care who it's coming for.
Cancel culture is gross, man.
But I mean, that goes back to why it's so important, why especially pastors and churches, you need to know what you're talking about.
And when you utter the term racism, realize that some people hear that term and think, oh, he's talking about a white oppressor group, keep, you know, oppressing a victim group.
It's a whole paradigm shift.
that if you're not aware of, you're actually, you could be espousing false teaching without even knowing it.
Yeah.
Interesting.
So why don't I leave us here with a passage.
This, this comes from second Timothy.
I think what's impactful about it is, is that these were Paul's last words.
He was about to be executed.
And so just think of the Apostle Paul, he's giving his last words, his last
charged to his kind of his mentee, his apprentice Timothy, who was this pastor of a church in a world where you have Jew and Gentile, you know, duking it out, these cultural differences, you have the Roman oppressors, the colonizers who have taken over the entire world and they're pressing everybody, you know, so this is the kind of world that Timothy is pastoring a church in, okay?
These are Paul's last words to Timothy in chapter 4.
He says, I solemnly charge you before God and Christ Jesus, who is going to judge the living and the dead and because of his appearing and his kingdom.
Preach the word.
Be ready in season and out of season.
Correct, rebuke, and encourage with great patience and teaching.
For the time will come when people will not tolerate sound doctrine.
But according to their own desires will multiply teachers for themselves because they have an itch to hear what they want to hear.
They will turn away from hearing the truth and will turn aside instead to myths.
But as for you exercise self control and everything endure hardship.
Do the work of an evangelist and fulfill your ministry.
So I thought that was a good kind of fitting end to this that Paul's charge to Timothy was to preach the word.
There's so many other things he could have said.
So many other pieces of advice he could have given him, but he told him to preach the word and to be ready, ready for the people who are going to want to hear something else who are going to be floating around from teacher to teacher, looking for what they want to hear.
And I think that's a fitting passage for kind of the world that we're living in now, don't you think?
Can I throw some wrecks out there?
Recommendations.
Yes.
Yeah, so Neil Shenvie, I'm gonna link to his website and his review of Woke Church.
So I'll include that.
I'll include a link to Rosaria Butterfield's talk.
I will include a link to John Harris's Facebook page and podcast.
John Harris is kind of, he's kind of a young guy.
He's recently graduated from seminary, I think, and he's just kind of dedicated his whole thing to
talking about this, this woke movement in the churches.
So he's very well versed in it and has a lot of resources there.
I'll link to all the stuff that we refer to.
So Paul David Tripp and who was the guy, the VeggieTales guy.
I'll link to that.
Vissure.
Yep.
But yeah, anything else?
Any other?
A couple of things throughout there.
You can include these or not.
It's up to you, Joel.
Yeah.
Samuel Say.
I don't know if you've heard that name before.
Okay.
Younger guy too, but he has a blog called Slow to Write.
He's a Canadian from Ghana, originally from Ghana.
And I've heard it.
Slow to write.
I think I've heard it.
Yeah.
He's a he's a he's a solid guy.
He wrote a review on white fragility that I thought was helpful.
And he's also written several articles since the George Floyd incident that have been helpful.
And then
Chalice wrote a review recently on called white fragility in the story it tells.
And it's basically just a synopsis of the author's argument, Robin D'Angelo's argument.
And it's incredible how self-defeating and empty it is without even him commenting on it.
So that's, I recommend that one too.
And then there's a good article on desiring God
called seeing the world in black and white and how in today's world, suspicion leads directly to slander without ever like, you know, investigating and hearing and understanding.
So that's helpful.
And then finally, I found this awesome video called what if Obi-Wan and Anakin Skywalker sounded like Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck.
the final confrontation I will link to that after going through all that other garbage you're gonna need it I can I can play it over over the yeah yeah wait hold on can I yeah please do all right hold on I'm gonna make sure this is all here we go
You're the chosen one!
It was said that you were just strong!
Sit back, join now, for a balance of a force not leaving darkness!
You are my god!
I loved you!
I love the internet.
That's great.
There is hope in this world.
Oh my goodness.
There's light even in darkness.
That's right.
Good.
The great euchatastrophe of this episode was Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck and the light sabers.
All right, brothers.